
#### docker info  查看docker程序是否正常工作

## 交互式容器 守护式容器

#### 3.2 运行容器

man docker-run
查看帮助信息

docker run -i -t ubuntu /bin/bash

-i, --interactive=true|false
    Keep STDIN open even if not attached. The default is false.
    When set to true, keep stdin open even if not attached. The default is false.
 -t, --tty=true|false
       Allocate a pseudo-TTY. The default is false.

       When set to true Docker can allocate a pseudo-tty and attach to the standard input of any container. This can be used, for example, to run a throwaway
       interactive shell. The default is false.

       The -t option is incompatible with a redirection of the docker client standard input.

teletype TTY
 -d, --detach=true|false
          Detached mode: run the container in the background and print the new container ID. The default is false.

       At any time you can run docker ps in the other shell to view a list of the running containers. You can reattach to a detached container with docker attach.

       When attached in the tty mode, you can detach from the container (and leave it running) using a configurable key sequence. The default sequence is CTRL-p
       CTRL-q.  You configure the key sequence using the --detach-keys option or a configuration file.  See config-json(5) for documentation on using a configuration
       file.
--restart=always 自动重启

-p, --publish
    Publish a container's port, or range of ports, to the host.

       Format: ip:hostPort:containerPort | ip::containerPort | hostPort:containerPort | containerPort Both hostPort and containerPort can be specified as a range of
       ports.  When specifying ranges for both, the number of container ports in the range must match the number of host ports in the range.  (e.g., docker run -p
       1234-1236:1222-1224 --name thisWorks -t busybox but not docker run -p 1230-1236:1230-1240 --name RangeContainerPortsBiggerThanRangeHostPorts -t busybox) With
       ip: docker run -p 127.0.0.1:$HOSTPORT:$CONTAINERPORT --name CONTAINER -t someimage Use docker port to see the actual mapping: docker port CONTAINER
       $CONTAINERPORT


docker run 命令创建并启动容器

#### docker-ps List containers 查看容器

Alias for docker container ls

-a,--all
    show all containers

#### 3.4 容器命名

docker 创建容器会随机命名

--name 用来定义容器名称

#### docker container 相关命令

 docker(1), docker-container-attach(1), docker-container-commit(1), docker-container-cp(1), docker-container-create(1), docker-container-diff(1),
       docker-container-exec(1), docker-container-export(1), docker-container-inspect(1), docker-container-kill(1), docker-container-logs(1), docker-container-ls(1),
       docker-container-pause(1), docker-container-port(1), docker-container-prune(1), docker-container-rename(1), docker-container-restart(1),
       docker-container-rm(1), docker-container-run(1), docker-container-start(1), docker-container-stats(1), docker-container-stop(1), docker-container-top(1),
       docker-container-unpause(1), docker-container-update(1), docker-container-wait(1)

* start
* stop
* restart
* attach
* rm
* logs 查看日志 Fetch the logs of a container
* top  Display the running processes of a container
* exec
* stats
* inspect
* port
* commit

#### 创建守护式容器  

docker run -d

### docker logs
